# BiFxLSTM-UNet
Segmentation of the AVP using MRI provides important quantitative tools for analyzing AVP morphology and trajectory. However, due to the ”X”-shaped structure of the AVP, its elongated morphology located deep within brain tissue, complex anatomical environment, and significant inter-individual morphological differences, traditional morphology- and atlasbased methods struggle to achieve precise segmentation of the AVP, often leading to segmentation failure and limiting clinical application. To address these challenges, deep learning-based AVP segmentation methods have been widely studied. Existing methods face challenges such as loss of texture details, structural discontinuities, and poor generalization, as they fail to accurately extract AVP structures from low-contrast regions and perform global modeling, while also struggling to capture potential periodic patterns in image data, resulting in poor performance on unseen data. In this paper, we propose a global periodic AVP segmentation model named BiFxLSTM-UNet, which is capable of accurately segmenting AVP structures in complex brain environments. Specifically, our model consists of two components: a Fourier fusion-driven bidirectional xLSTM visual backbone and a UNet decoder. First, the Fourier fusion-driven bidirectional xLSTM visual backbone captures tight global temporal relationships between AVP slices, performs global periodic modeling, and learns the periodic patterns underlying the image data. Then, the UNet decoder generates AVP images that closely resemble manual annotations by medical professionals. Extensive comparative experiments demonstrate that, compared to existing methods, our approach shows competitive performance in both qualitative and quantitative evaluations of image quality.


Code will open after article be accepted
